---
date: 2017-01-30
title: About Mconf-Web
categories:
  - Mconf-Web
  - Getting Started
set: getting-started
set_order: 3
description: Learn about Mconf-Web, the web portal that provides access to web conferences
type: Document
---

## About

Mconf-Web is web portal that provides access to Mconf. It connects to a Mconf-Live/BigBlueButton server (works with both applications) and allows users to create and participate in web conferences. It provides features that are (by design) not implemented in the core of Mconf-Live/BigBlueButton, such as:

* User authentication;
* Permission control to access web conference rooms;
* Users can create and join spaces (communities) to interact;
* Users have their own web conferences that they can share with other members or even invite people that do not have an account;
* Spaces also have a web conference room that its members can use to interact.

## Try it!

Mconf-Web can be tested at: <http://mconf.org/>. This server is free for everyone to register and use to explore Mconf.

## Integration with Mconf-Live/BigBlueButton

Mconf-Web will always support the latest version of Mconf-Live. As for BigBlueButton, it currently supports versions **0.8** (and 0.81), **0.9.0** (and 0.9.1) and **1.0**. Since the changes in BigBlueButton's API are usually backwards compatible, Mconf-Web will possibly also support newer versions of BigBlueButton as they are released, even if they are not listed here.

The integration with Mconf-Live/BigBlueButton is based on two gems:

* **[bigbluebutton-api-ruby](https://github.com/mconf/bigbluebutton-api-ruby)**: A library to access Mconf-Live/BigBlueButton's API in Ruby applications.
* **[bigbluebutton_rails](https://github.com/mconf/bigbluebutton_rails)**: An integration of BigBlueButton and Rails. It uses `bigbluebutton-api-ruby` to access BigBlueButton's API.

## How to Start

For developers:

* [Learn how to setup a development environment]({% post_url 2017-07-31-mconf-web-development %})
* And then [how to test the application]({% post_url 2017-07-31-mconf-web-testing %})

To install Mconf-Web on a server:

* [Install the latest stable version]({% post_url 2017-07-30-mconf-web-deploy %})

More:

* [Releases](https://github.com/mconf/mconf-web/releases)
* [Changelog](https://github.com/mconf/mconf-web/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
* [Want to translate Mconf-Web to another language?]({% post_url 2017-07-30-mconf-web-translating %})


## Global Plaza

Mconf-Web started as a fork of VCC, an open source system that can be found [here](https://github.com/ging/vcc). VCC, also known as Global Plaza, is a project developed in Ruby on Rails to provide a virtual event service for the Internet. It uses the Isabel system to provide webconferencing.

The project supporting VCC has ended in the end of 2010, so it's development has been stopped since then. You can find the Global Plaza project running at: <http://www.globalplaza.org/>

VCC was developed in Ruby on Rails 2.3.4 and uses Isabel for web confereces. The most important differences included by Mconf-Web are the use of **Rails 4** and the use of **BigBlueButton** as a replacement for Isabel. As time passes, more and more features and changes are made in Mconf-Web, making it today a completely different application from what VCC was initially.
