---
date: 2017-01-31
title: About the load balancer
categories:
  - LB
description: Learn about LB, Mconf's API load balancer
type: Document
---

## About

The load balancer is responsible for receiving API calls and redirecting them to the appropriate web conference server. When a request to create a meeting is received, it will also decide in which server it should be held, thus making the load balancing.

To understand the load balancer you have to first understand how the API of Mconf-Live and BigBlueButton work. See [BigBlueButton's standard API](http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/wiki/API) and then [what was changed on the API of Mconf-Live](https://github.com/mconf/wiki/wiki/Mconf-Live-API). At last, see the changes included in [the load balancer's API](https://github.com/mconf/wiki/wiki/Mconf-LB-API).

## Basics

The LB is a [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) application that runs non-stop and is constantly fetching and receiving information about the web conference servers in its network.

Every ~10-15 seconds it sends a request to a Nagios server, that returns a list of servers and a lot of information about them: CPU load, memory used/free, disk status, etc. These servers are then loaded into the LB and used for balancing the load. Servers are automatically disabled if one of the services informed by Nagios has a `warning` or `critical` status. They can also be forcibly enabled or disabled by an administrator.

When it receives a `create` call, it will analyse all servers registered to decide which one will be used to hold the new meeting. The decision can be based in any of the algorithms already available, such as: pick the server with less meetings, pick the server with less CPU load, and so on. The algorithm currently in use does the following:

* Find the server that's nearest to the user request the new meeting (using geolocation);
* Find other servers that are in a ~300km radius of this server;
* Among the servers pre-selected, selects the one with less CPU load at the moment.

For other API calls, the LB will send the call to the appropriate server. If a `getMeetingInfo` is received, for example, it has to be sent to the server in which the target meeting was created. Calls that are not to a specific meeting, such as `getMeetings`, are responded by the LB and not sent to any web conference server.

The API calls are actually "proxyied" to the web conference servers, and not redirected. The LB will make the API call, get and analyse the response, and then answer to the user. The important part in this is that the LB is enabled to check the responses and make decisions on how to respond to the user.

Whenever the LB requests the list of servers to Nagios, it follows by send a `getMeetings` request to **all** web conference servers to update its local database of meetings. Something similar is made for recordings: a `getRecordings` is sent for every web conference server to update the list in the LB. But for recordings the update interval is a lot longer, since recordings will change less often than meetings and having a slightly out-of-date list of recordings is not as critical as having a slightly out-of-date list of meetings.

Such as in the API of Mconf-Live/BigBlueButton, to access the API of the LB the website needs a *shared secret*, a hash key that works as a password to encode the API calls. The LB has models called Integration that contain a shared secret. These integrations correspond to one website that has access to the LB. There's no limit in the number of integrations that can be created in the LB.

The LB has also other main features:

* Usage reports: it stores information for all events (when a meeting was created, when a user joined, etc) and shows usage reports based on it;
* Administration interface: it has pages to configure the LB, to create and give access to users, integrations, and so on;
* Dashboard: the dashboard is the front page of the LB, that shows the real-time status of the entire network.

## Documentation for developers

* [[Integrations, plans and partners]];
* [[Authentication and authorization]];
* [[Routers]];
* [[Usage reports]].


## General assumptions

Things to be considered when using/developing the load balancer:

* The servers available to the load balancer should only be used by the load balancer.
Meetings should not be created directly in the servers bypassing the load balancer,
otherwise weird things can happen:
  * Events will not be recorded, obviously;
  * Meeting IDs can conflict;
  * Recordings will not be visible;
  * etc.


## Useful links for the lazy

* Twitter's Bootstrap: http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/
* expressjs guide: http://expressjs.com/guide.html
* jade: https://github.com/visionmedia/jade
* request: https://github.com/mikeal/request
* mocha: http://visionmedia.github.com/mocha/
* should.js: https://github.com/visionmedia/should.js
* rosie: https://github.com/mconf/rosie
